4/9/2021 - 4/13/2021

I'm balancing my time between planning my next research phase and finishing up my current project 
on colloidal self-assembly.  I've discovered through developing my own (basic) simulation software
that computational results can be unexpectedly difficult to verify or check (without seeking input
from third parties.) There is a certain art to making sure that a simulation does what one expects it 
to do, beyond simply visualizing the results and corroborating them with theory and experiment.  

Part of planning future research involves learning new things.  I'm currently brushing up on 
algebraic geometry (mostly to appreciate a new 'perspective' on mathematics, and partly in order 
to see how that perspective might extend to other topics, and hopefully in order to be able to teach.)
I am also revisiting a topic that interested me as an undergraduate: open quantum systems, and conditions 
under which these thermalize/decohere or fail to do so. I'm especially interested in the question of 
whether and/or the extent to which the dynamics of a system can be inferred from the evolution of the 
density matrix of a subsystem.
I'll also say that I've been interested in topics that could potentially be relevant in urban forestry 
settings: understanding or even just measuring the impact of human activity on nearby ecosystems (when
these even can be said to exist.)

Other potential research directions:
- Understanding the 'constitutive behavior' of complex biopolymers (RNA, proteins, etc.)
    The goals of this project would be primarily educational, being focused primarily on a somewhat 
    open set of questions instead of the narrower scope of informatics based approaches to structure
    prediction.  I'm mainly interested in what a 'sparse' description of a biopolymer would look like,
    somewhere between the base pair or amino-acid sequence and the fully explicit molecular structure.
    The base sequence has enough information to predict the resulting structure within a particular 
    environment.  Presumably the genotype-phenotype or structure-function map depends on ambient 
    variables, however; temperature, pressure, pH, the proximity of other complex biopolymers, 
    volume constraints, and more.  
- Scattering of ultra low frequency radiation in the interstellar medium.  This has interested me 
    for a few months.  The interstellar medium is something that I don't understand especially well,
    and which seems to be somewhat difficult to observe directly.  Why not try to simulate it, and 
    infer what it might be like?  How might slight electrostatic charge imbalances smoothen out over
    large distances?  What kind of large scale structure might emerge through purely gravitational 
    interactions?  How would ultra-long-wavelength (e.g. ~1au) radiation interact with this structure 
    over even longer length scales (e.g. ~1lyr)?
- Instabilities in solar wind.  This is tangentially related to the ultra-low-frequency scattering
    project.  I'm somewhat interested in potential interplay between gravitational and magnetic effects,
    as well as how far the solar wind extends beyond our solar system (probes show a somewhat precipitous 
    drop beyond a certain distance, but it isn't clear to me why this effect might not be anisotropic.)
- Quantum chemistry.  Admittedly, this would probably be more for fun than anything else.  I'm interested
    in learning more about reduced descriptions of molecules in terms of open quantum systems, whether 
    these can be derived from first principles, or if not, how difficult it would be to 'learn' them.

Prospective technical projects:
- Understanding the effect of hydrodynamic interactions in colloidal self-assembly for colloids in close
    proximity (or near rigid surfaces.)  Hydrodynamic interactions appear to be relatively well-modeled 
    in dilute suspensions of colloids, but I have struggled to find articles on their effects at high 
    density (where a suspension might transition from Newtonian to highly non-Newtonian behavior.)  
    Accurate expressions or simple approximations for the diffusion tensor at high density could be useful 
    in understanding what kinds of colloidal assemblies are feasible.
- Accurate expressions of Asakura-Oosawa depletion interactions between anisotropic (or 'aspherical') 
    colloids.  This is motivated by a suggested project that Chris Rycroft, my graduate advisor, offered
    while I was at Harvard.  It is worth investigating for many reasons, including that a vast array of 
    self-assembly behaviors can be achieved with anisotropic features simply through depletion forces, which
    might be further relevant in any context where anisotropic colloids exist at various scales and at 
    high density (e.g. most biological settings.)  The challenge is that the question is theoretically messy,
    and highly involved even with a purely numerical approach.  An appropriately general representation of 
    anisotropic colloids is necessary.  An efficient representation is needed of a 3-component function 
    (force) over a 6-dimensional configuration space (relative displacement & rotation.)  Colloids with 
    'singular' features such as cusps or ridges may need additional structure to represent their interactions.

Crazy/amateur projects:
- Engineering related topics.  Obviously sustainability is important.  This would largely involve 
    personal research (probably of an educational type) on topics that are relevant to solar, wind, and 
    geothermal energy.  I'm somewhat interested in ways that architecture can be adapted to achieve certain
    living conditions passively (e.g. cooler/warmer interiors in the appropriate season), and or allow
    for less wasted time and energy.
- Recyclablity of various products (e.g. plastics).  Plastics can be hard to recycle economically.  One 
    usage I can foresee is devising a way to convert clean plastic resin into something fungible like filament
    for a 3D printer.  Another would be to minimize processing, and use the abundance of plastic in various 
    forms (e.g. thin sheets, which are somewhat ubiquitous) to our advantage.  Maybe sheet plastic could be
    used to create origami-inspired structures, with minimal thermoforming.
- Impressions in biological systems.  Over the past few decades there has been a 'surge' of 
    interest in the idea of urban woodlands.  The idea (to my knowledge) is to find ways of building into 
    natural environments, or 'renaturalizing' urban ones, that involve minimal disturbance to those environments.
    Urban environments tend to have somewhat intricate design layouts, with information carefully placed so 
    that people can function in their day to day lives; it seems to me that biological ecosystems are 
    probably similar.  Hence, building into woodlands or another natural space (without essentially clear-cutting) 
    could require first mapping out how to avoid obscuring essential signals and environmental cues.

There are other topics that I'll try to mention as they come to mind.  Right now I'm doing stuff that's a bit more basic:
- Rebuilding a simulation (in C, possibly C++ eventually) for greater adaptability.
- Implementing several custom numerical routines (e.g. mesh generation, differential geometry, 
    data structures for computational physics, etc.)
- Pondering the dearth of journalism in my current neck of the woods.
